real
good friends very she took me home to her family and
uh her name is maria cough We
did correspond quite a bit. Maybe that's the one
they considered. She later on became a school
teacher. Maybe she wrote to me, but she became a
school teacher. Not that she... While I was in
camp. So... That's a good question. I can't even
think to ask who you corresponded with when you did
it. So here's
a romance with a girl, and you just got through it,
and you went to a tree. You were recuperating, and
you met two girls, or just one? We met both of them.
We were walking together, both sisters. Did any of
these develop into passionate love affairs, or is
it just, I'm trying to figure out how, rural this
is. Is this holding hands and walking through the
park, or is this closeting yourself? I don't mean
to be too straightforward, but I'm trying to
figure out the level of your worldliness. Oh, I
would say that I was quite smitten by her beauty and
attractiveness, I would say.
She was a very pretty girl and a fun girl. There's
the usual attraction, I mean a good healthy
attraction between a young man and a young woman.
It's just that, good, you know, fun. I'm sure it
could have gotten somewhere.
But it didn't. But it was definitely there. Oh,
sure. Well, there was another one in Berlin
that I was kind of also very attracted
to. But while I was in camp, and I also got letters
from her in camp, so it wasn't, that's why I always
said, you know, this one girl thing that was
mentioned in these articles didn't quite gel,
because if you're engaged, you don't write to two
or three others. I mean, I never felt engaged in
that sense. But I...
The
other
one that I was also attracted to, like a young man
being attracted to a number of young, attractive
ladies. And if you're trying to reach the level, I
would have to fess up. That was quite worldly. Oh,
good. Good. All right. I don't mean it as a value
judgment or anything like that. I'm not trying to
hedge either and make something out of something.
I'm trying to get to the truth myself, because what
do I know? I just do it.
Pardon me. When, how do I put this in a more delicate
way, when did you find somebody
Budapest
had the first what, Spanbridge? U-Bahn. Oh yes,
the subway. Subway, before Vienna. Yes, oh yes.
Hungary had a... U-Bahn. Hungary
had a beautiful Victorian mosaic on the walls.
Really? Yeah, just lovely. And it's the biggest
span bridge in the world up to that moment. It was
built across the Danube, and it was built by
Whistler's father. Everybody hears about
Whistler's mother. Nobody ever hears about
Whistler's father. He was a famous architect. The
same family? Same family. Whistler's father was a
bridge builder. He built the huge span bridge
across the Danube in Hungary. And I think he also
contributed to the Golden Gate Bridge once.
Really? Yes. I mentioned that in the early days,
that was right after Poland and Hungary, I guess,
as we talked yesterday, these were all
blitzkriegs. In other words, they went in, they
didn't last more than a week and a half, really, two
months, I don't know. But certainly not a
drawn-out, Search and destroy kind of operation.
Yeah, it's like Vietnam. Yeah, where everything
is in shambles, you know. Okay, anyway. Let me ask
you about, all right, so you have some girlfriends
and love affairs, and they eventually, letters
followed you even to the POW camp. The other one
that I... She married your best friend. She
married...
She married a doctor. I've got letters saying that
she now had two children or something like that.
She married a doctor. Gene is laughing to herself
at how adolescent men are. Then, let's see, while
we're at it, I'm just trying to open up a hedge on
that romance department. I was just curious when
you found a man... I'm going to ask this question.
Why don't we get to it? Marry the Oberlieutenant.
What? Marry the Oberlieutenant. I'm just trying
to find out how worldly you were when you first met a
girl and went to bed with this girl.
This was hard. When did you go to bed with somebody?
And the reason I ask is because, one, I'm trying to
assess the worldliness. The isolation up until
you were with Jean, too. The question of how much
contact were you having? How much of a survivor
were you? How much of a loner were you? If, for
instance, nothing had happened until after you
got out of the prison camp, or something like that,
or even into your 30s or 40s, that means that you
were putting a lot more energy on being alone and
safe. No, I think I was quite interested in the
opposite sex. 90% of the time. Oh, sure, sure. I've
asked him a lot of those questions, too, and I get
just as little response as yours. And he thinks I'm
doing that out of just curiosity. I'm not.
Curiosity, yes. But I was much more interested to
find out what his level of intimacy, how was he able
to, was he able... in his earlier days to open up to
somebody and have a degree of intimacy then. And it
was important to me to find that out. Was it just me?
He was unable to get down to
this certain level of how time is almost important
in a relationship. And I have not, to this point,
been able to get much of a description about how he
was with other people. Well, Chris, in your case,
there's two answers to this. In your answer... No,
this doesn't have to be in it at all. This doesn't
have to be... No, no, it's more to understand how
much of a loner you had been up to that time.
I took... I really learned a lot, or thought I
learned a lot from the Turk as far as women is
concerned. One of the things that Lowell and I, we
were absolutely fascinated by the Turk. Lowell?
Lowell Welch, yeah. Lowell Welch. Lowell Welch,
yeah. Got it. Absolutely fascinated by this Turk,
which is another story sometime if you need an
interesting character to liven up a few pages.
Sure.
I got into trouble with him once because I
mentioned one of his other girlfriends in the same
room with the one that he was with. The only time he
ever got mad at me was, you do not ever mention other
girls in front of your girl. It's an absolute
no-no. No matter how many times they ask you, they
want to know all about it, you do not tell. Which
your father told you too, saying that gentlemen
don't discuss those things. This kind of clinical
approach, you know, is from the old school, is
rejected by the old school of the old macho school,
the old bull and jumping over the fence school, you
see. So I came from the old... Oh, I understand
that. And it's not that it needs even any
explanation. There's no judgment to it, of
course. I was just curious whether... It first
became intimate later in life or earlier in life.
Yeah, I understand. I knew this was always going to
be a difficult area. Oh, I don't mean to make it
difficult. Just later in life would be...
No, no. Okay, then it would be that girl that
married the doctor. Because I had met her when I
visited my cousins in Berlin. And we were out at the
Tegernsee, I think. She knew some friends, and we
went out for an afternoon of sailing. And this gal
was there with somebody. And it turned out she
lived fairly close. She lived in Breslau rather
than in Berlin. She was also a musician there. So we
dated after that, and
we did In fact, I spent a weekend at the ski lodge up
there together.
So that was about the hottest romance I had,
besides the one from afar. So I was quite active in
my imagination. reality, I've heard. And this was
between the
Jesus and he bent over good again. That's the way I
believe it. Well, I was curious, you know, if you
did have passionate relationships while you were
still in Germany, then you took off, was it on dry
spell until Jim, or did you manage to have
encounters with him in between? Oh,
yes, yes. We're not talking about intent and
motivation. Alright,
so you were on furlough, you were recovering.
On furlough and recovery, how did you get from
there to the training, the Army training,
official Army training? Your wound, your shin
healed. Yeah, yeah. And then eventually you got to
go into the Army itself. Yeah.
Then I was transferred to the West, to Monheim.
There was another training, and that's where I was
a drill instructor. It must have been a major
training center. It's near a railroad, a huge
railroad area, where they probably came through
and picked them up. We had constantly new units to
train that had gone to different fronts. Oh, I
probably, but within the next couple of weeks, I'm
going to have graduate students. You're going to
get them better than you think. Graduate students
who are going to be out looking for them. training
camps in Germany in 1941, what they looked like,
how big they were, what trains they served them.
You're probably going to get a lot of these records
at times, more typed down than I can. Lots of pages
on that soul book that I have a little difficulty
deciphering, because I don't see any mention of
Heidelberg. It must be another, it may be just an
assignment I was assigned to this school, I don't
know. Yeah, I noticed there's no photograph in
there either. They used to have a photograph in
there. Maybe it was pulled out. That may well have
been the photograph that was used for your
father's photograph. I thought there was one
taken out of the kin carton. There was that other
little thing I showed you. Besides the soul book,
we had a kin carton, an identification. That had a
picture, and that was taken out, I think.
So you went, you were a regular army, you were in
Mannheim at the training camp, you were a drill
instructor, were you also a ski instructor, or
that was it, earlier? That must have been earlier,
because I was still in the eastern part, I was
assigned to teaching skiing. That was when you
were in the labor? No, I was, when I was in the basic
training, either in this, might have been with,
when I was still with the horses, It seems to me I was
in two places in East Germany before I was shipped
to West Germany. And one of them in East Germany,
because there was no snow, so it had to be, and I
trained cross-country for Russian front. Right.
Then to Mannheim, then the drill instructor. And
then you were recycled again and again as a drill
instructor as each unit went through. Were you
feared as a drill instructor? Did you take it very
seriously, or was it more just a job or a game? Well,
I like to think that I was a good one. I mean, a
successful one. I could teach people what it is to
do things easier and better. I try to act as tough
and act like I was supposed to act as a drill
instructor, but also have a lot of humanities in
it, in my unit, and was always finished first or
second. We had competition amongst drill
instructors, so I was fairly successful. If we
were to talk to a member of that unit today, and he
was to look back and say, I was at Mannheim, I was
under Sergeant Gertner, Boy, what would he say?
What would he say? This guy didn't give us a break.
He ran us ragged. It would be fun to find out. I would
like to know myself. I'd like to think that I was
just simply have a good voice. I think
sometimes... How would he describe you? I don't
know how he would describe me, but I'd like... If I
had to... analyze my approach that I have always
used, whether it was a drill instructor or a ski
instructor or whatever, to motivate other people
to do things that I want them to do, was always to
find that certain compromise between toughness
and fairness. And maybe just a little curl around
the lips for a little joke on them, too. I see. If you
were, could you imagine yourself? Get the hell out
of here kind of thing, you know. If you were, could
see yourself as a member of that group today, how
would you think you would look back on old Sarge
Gardner? I'd be very happy with him. You think that
he prepared them? Do you think that Gartner
prepared you for combat, wherever you went? You
went off with a spirit, or you went off...
You know, when we talk about combat, whatever
their weaponry was, I thought I did a good job. But
whether that, you know, the actual application, I
don't know. Like, if you knew how to ski in Russia,
certainly it was an advantage to you. If you knew
certain steps that other people didn't know, I can
get away from you where the other guy can't. So I
always felt skills is going to be your survival, no
matter where you are. To improve your skills, to
pay attention, to look alive, that's all we really
did, to kind of shake him up and, you know, you
paying attention? Are you with me? You know, type
of thing. Because half of them, I'm sure, didn't
want to be there. Did you? Well, it seemed like,
yeah, I wanted to be there because the
alternatives, there were no alternatives. I
couldn't be home. So, you know, if you give me an
alternative, attractive alternatives, maybe,
but there were none. When did you want to become an
officer? Well, I You know, came from, like I said,
from an area that had a lot of tradition in the
military, and of course wanted to be an officer
badly. And all, in my school, you know, as soon as
you graduated, you were sent automatically to
officer school. My other friend, Horst Trispel,
was already an officer. So, and of course, we had
the Prussian tradition of famous officers. My
hometown,
Manfred von Richthofen was born. I saw his, I met
his mother, saw his plane. The Red Baron. Numerous
generals. I mean, so it's a militaristic, it's
almost the yonkers, what they call. Oh, another
friend I should mention at that point, when I say
yonkers, he sat behind me in class. His name is Von
Lieres. L-I-E-R-E-S. Von Lieres. And I guess you
would describe him as a yonker. Actually, what he
was, they... they owned land. These, these von,
von Richthofen, most of them, there were some poor
ones and there were some not so poor ones, you know,
depending on which land they owned. And, so, and he
liked me and he would ask me to come out to his estate
and if you had time you could look through Middle
Schlesien and you see what these places look like.
They're big, farmhouses, you see, those
so-called estates. They have chicken, cows, and
the whole thing, plus so many acres, and they
raise, they might have farmers that work there.
What is that called? Other people. They sub it out.
Tenant farmers. Yeah, tenant farmers. So
certainly it's a big tradition, a Yonker
tradition. It's a big Yonker tradition. So Von
Lear is this fellow and I. He used to invite me out
for the weekend. And it's just a great big family,
and chickens running around, and Mrs. Bond here is
running around with her hair, trying to keep track
of all this and feed everybody, feed the help, you
know, in the kitchen. How much respect did you pay
to these people? So
these people held a high level in the community.
Oh, yeah, but this kind of thing is done to your
college professor. Yes, of course. But I'm trying
to assess your level of respect for military
heritage
for a number of reasons. One is with what intensity
did you go into the military? With what intensity
then did it affect you to find yourself captured?
And with what intensity then did you have to break
all those ties? How deep were those ties that you
would have to later amputate?
If you were to meet a military officer now, you
wouldn't feel that same respect that you would
have felt then, which indicates that the
amputation was complete.
So when you met these people, it was nod the head and
startles there, because these were fun, so and so.
Yeah. And I always thought that this kind of
behavior was a
courtesy kind of thing. It was not a It did not say
that I was odd, or it did not give anything away
from, take not anything away from me as a person.
Oh, yes, right. That I would bow, just because I
bowed from the waist of whichever we were doing it,
I don't remember. I don't mean to say that it means
anything more than how deeply ingrained were the
traditions that you then had to break. I grew up
with exactly the same philosophy. were not too
hard to break, especially since we had this
breakdown of discipline in the camps. There was
already a 50% breakdown. We were amongst our own
kind, and we did not have to salute each other. So
for a couple of years, it was
almost nonexistent except to just the frame of the
whole thing. We might salute the American
officers, and we give it as just a form of...
Military courtesy. Military courtesy, and it
means nothing. You could just, if you wanted to, go
like this afterwards. Yeah, but you always did.
Yeah. It's a matter of recognition. Oh, yeah, I
understand. So, you know, but it's just like once I
learned the customs and the forms of greetings in
this country, I'm a social animal that I enjoy
doing the social amenities to get along. I don't
want to start a fight just walking into a room. No,
no, no, of course. Did you see any of your own
officers in the camp? Or your own officers were in a
different company? No, they were in a different
company. They were separated. So you generally
didn't see your own officers. So there was no
discipline involved. from the outside except
either what you offered to the American
commanders.
But one sergeant every evening started a meeting
about putting up bulletins and war news and things
that have to be done on the post. Yeah, the usual
bureaucracy evolves. People tend to create
paperwork and keep busy with... But you wouldn't
have saluted the sergeant that called the
meeting? If you had to make a report, for instance,
like you see now on television, when somebody
comes, let's say a speaker is introducing
somebody, he'll say this, gives them an
introduction, and then he'll turn, and then he'll
bow, and it's an animalistic way of ushering the
next one in. So if I say, how many men do you have in
your barracks? I might say, I have 39 men. And that
makes it official. Right. If I just say I have 39
men, you might think I'm just guessing. After
the assassination of Hitler's life in July of
1944, the German army introduced the
outstretched arms salute. and made it mandatory
for German soldiers. I didn't know that. I often
wondered when I saw those pictures, and I kept
telling Gene, I said, we never... No, there was
nothing like that. I can't believe that. I said, I
have never seen that. Yeah, it was made mandatory
in the camps after July, or at least a lot of the
camps adopted that out of sympathy for those close
call. But nothing like that happened at the camp.
There wasn't a high level of political activity
after him. There must not have been, because I just
heard it from you. Because I questioned it in those
pictures I saw in your book. I said, that can't be.
Old camps. I said, we never did. And we never
saluted without a hat. You had said that the camps
were being separated, that when you'd get
transferred, it had to do with affiliations and
things that you didn't know at the time. So maybe
some camps got so different from other camps. Must
have been, yeah. But we had, I know, when I see some
of those things, you know, like without a cap, you
don't salute at all. No, not covered. Let me ask
you, Once you decided to become an officer, you
realized that you had to get combat experience in
order to be promoted. So you waited for an
opportunity, and there's an opportunity on the
bulletin board. Volunteers wanted for Africa
Corps. I actually came, it was, I think the other
way around it was, I finally somehow, they keep
probably going through their records. Yes. And I
have a feeling that somehow somebody fouled up
Because in my soul book,
I was once in it as a mason. And then somebody
scratched a line through it and put down student.
Because I was constantly, like I say, nothing ever
happened to me. And they must have gone and taken a
sweep. They probably needed new officer
material, and they looked at their records or
something, and they said I was appointed
officer's candidate, which is K-O-V. I became a
K-O-V. From that time on, you got special
training. Also there in Mannheim? Yeah, in
Mannheim, and then I was sent to the school in
Heidelberg, and from there, Now you, they
evaluated you there at the end and then
you were assigned to combat and experience. That
was your requisite for being promoted. And then
you saw assignments at African Corps Volunteer
Committee? At the end of the training at
Heidelberg. Then into the African Corps. Then you
were inducted and you went to the African Corps.
Did you have to have special training for that? No.
It was just another assignment, special
uniforms. So you got special uniforms. And then
you started on your way down Yugoslavia? Yeah.
Yugoslavia to Athens. Right. How did you get to
Italy? Because you saw the port. I believe
after... I had to be taken off the plane in Crete
because of my diarrhea and illness. This is going
down, after going down Yugoslavia? Going to
Athens, Greece, and just a few days until the
planes get ready, I guess. Trying to catch up with
Rommel's army at Tobruk. There you think the
battle was already on. No, we were not told. We
didn't get any newspapers
or anything. You were in Crete. Yeah, we were in
Crete. And then as soon as I recovered, I'm trying
to wreck my memory how I got back to So quickly,
because I didn't take the same freight cattle
train back that took forever through Yugoslavia
and stuff. Whether they flew me, I don't think they
flew me. I would have gotten sick again. Maybe a
better train, faster train or something that they
got me back and then into a new unit and down to
Italy. Still in the African port. Still in the
African port. And outside of Naples, while we were
waiting again, we got a pass to go to Pompeii and to
see the Pope. Did you go with a bunch of friends, or
were you just on your own? Yeah, a bunch of friends.
It was more of a controlled guided tour. And you saw
Pope Pius XII? People came out and blessed the
crowd and blessed the road. And I sent it back and I
think I would send one to Maria up because I knew she
was a good captain. She would like it. Also, here's
a girl who's building up her expectations. Not
only a weekend in the country, but a blessed rosary
on top of it. No, no. Sharia? No, no, no weekend in
the country. Oh, oh. The other one in that case.
This thing may be, we could sell this to Hustler.
All right,
so then from Italy, somehow you were transferred
finally down to Toulouse. Yeah, the Tobruk. The
Tobruk. East of Tobruk. You were flown down or went
by ship, do you recall? I believe it was ship and
truck. Ship to North Africa and then truck took you
across the desert. I'm just trying to feel this
thing so I don't have any really old periods
missing. Yeah. Okay, so you're at Tobruk, and then
starts the whole process of artillery. Battle,
artillery barrages and stops and new foxholes
every night or every other night. And you're in the
retreat. In a retreat. It's just a hit-and-run
kind of operation. It was a large unit you were with
or a small unit? The battalion has four guns. There
may have been another battalion nearby. Mm-hmm.
But everything was fairly stretched out. Were
you ever strafed by? Oh, constantly, by a P-38 that
bombed overhead with these B-52s on their runs.
They came and just rained it down like a... an
orchard of trees, those things come off, you know.
Let me interrupt, but I think that, I'm talking
about the P-38, and I think you mentioned that
years later, you can serve salad out of it. Salad
out of it. Oh, yes, that's right. That plastic,
that nose cone. Yes, I never made that connection.
And all these... I hadn't made that connection,
that's cute. And all those, oh yeah, and all those
WW2 vets, you know, they were the most gracious
people in the world. invited me to their Fourth of
July party with this marvelous green salad and a
P-38 plastic nose cone. I asked him, what is this?
You're seeing it from a different perspective.
Yes, yes. Yeah, with the machine guns going at you,
you know, spitting out those bullets. And I hated
that plane. I recognized it anywhere. Was the
salad good? The salad was excellent. California
style. California style. So you were strafed by
planes? And bombed. And bombed. The B-52 bombers
that came from nowhere. 10, 20, 30. You could
hardly see them. They were that high. But you knew
you could hear them come down. And they would lay
down these patterns.
So, and no German fighter plane in the sky to, you
know, and very little resistance. Did you ever get
morale lectures from
political officers that came around and gave you a
pep talk? Never seen a political officer. I'm
honest, honestly. Never seen one. They may have
had them. Yeah, they came around the units to give
morale to the men. Okay, so you are, morale is
dropping quickly. Yes and no. I think the German,
that's one of the things, you know, you just take
it. Then you get kind of stoic. That's it. That's
the way it is. And you just go out and do your thing.
Was there a lull and then the surrender? Or was it a
barrage, barrage, barrage, and then the
surrender came right after? Yeah. Pretty shortly
after barrage, yeah. And finally, somebody had
made an arrangement to surrender. You didn't know
who it was? You didn't have anything to do with it?
As a matter of fact, this particular unit is called
Storm Artillery. My father mentioned it
somewhere in this newspaper advertisement that
it was attached to a storm artillery, which is
slightly different, I think. I don't think we had
any infantry in front of us. We had nothing, just a
desert. So
you just moved around and... tried to scare the
other guy into thinking you were something or you
were bigger than you were or whatever. And
I have never, except a gentleman came around, a
gentleman came around once, kind of a short guy
with a red thing on his pants and, you know,
everywhere. And they're usually feisty little
guys. They have a little pep talk, a little smile,
and that kind of thing. And that's the only guy that
ever really... My officer, I never saw him. They
were always up front on some mountain with their
radio man. you know, looking and directing the
fire. That's why we're talking about, you know,
this stretched out, this, you know, none of this
compression of people, you know. We didn't have
that. If you looked up, out of your foxhole, you saw
absolutely nothing. Did you make any close army
buddies while you were there? Friends that you may
have Surrendered with and gone to camp with
because these kinds of crises bring people
together Yeah, someone's shooting at you and
there's somebody nearby you get to know that
person pretty quickly Yeah, but the thing is you
were not allowed in a foxhole with anybody That is
pretty strange thing that people I never see that
anywhere that this is The most important thing in
that kind of warfare and that you do not have a buddy
in your foxhole because i see it in these movies all
the time four or five guys that get so close like
crime and he thinks it would have been unheard of
you were not allowed i see a lot of isolation from
from yeah one end to the other even even in your in
under fire you were almost yeah i i'm just as
interested in what you're saying you know Because
it's not like the pictures from Vietnam where you
see two soldiers hugging each other and crying, or
mud streaked and bleeding. This is a very... Yeah,
only if somebody was hurt, you know. Were there a
lot of people hurt that you remember? Not too, no.
Because it had to almost be a direct hit of one
foxhole. If the thing hit 20 or 30 feet away, if you
had a decent foxhole, you probably got away with
getting a few rocks thrown at you you know and
everything else went about you and you got a new
foxhole there and you got a foxhole right from the
yeah yeah and it's a good one because they can never
hit that spot again yeah yeah they cannot right at
least in those days they couldn't tell it's in the
rule book somewhere yeah uh how long did this go on
How long, from the time you got to Africa, I can
check on the soul book, but about how long do you
remember it going on? About four months, three or
four months. Three or four months in Africa. Then
comes barrages, barrages, barrages, and someone
informs you that it's... just lay low, we're going
to surrender, and someone's going to come around
for us. Yeah, and actually, within a day or two, at
first I had my orders to report to Berlin, and then
within a few hours or a day next, hold everything.
We were surrounded, cut off. We are waiting for
their orders. Stay in your foxhole. So there you
are reading that book in your foxhole and donated
by the German Red Cross. By the German Red Cross.
And it's just a lovely, lovely story of hope and
love. You know, man, woman, love. Very
fundamental thing that I needed at that time. The
humanistic side of people rather than the war,
which by that time was gone. Were you writing to
your parents while they were in New England? I may
have, but I doubt if I wrote too much because we were
really on the run. And I was, to be honest with you, I
was pretty scared most of the time. Sure, sure. I
didn't even say anything. I just think that
something is going to, some red hot piece is going
to tear you apart and mostly maim you. Yes. I was
always terrified. It's amazing, like, you know,
in those fragments, you can hear them sing, you
know, around after the impact. Those are the best
scary moments. First, of course, the impact. And
that scares the hell out of you. But then come the
fragment, and that high whine, and you can almost
see them red hot. Oh, yes, yeah. You know, you can
almost visualize them by the sound. They had to be
red-hot steel. And then you said, Jesus Christ,
they're going to take half of one of those buggers.
They're going to tear the nastiest hole into you
that you can imagine. No religious moments at
times like that. Those are the moments when you
start probing your values and religious, making
deals with God, as my mother does when my brother's
orders came through. Do you remember any...
sitting there doing the catechism, or sitting
there and... My reaction to something like that
is, who in the hell screwed this whole thing up? To
get us into that kind of... How can that ever be?
That sounds pretty sane to me. Who is doing this?
Let me ask, when you went to school, when you were in
school, before you went into the service, What
were your best subjects, do you recall? English.
German second, maybe. And of course, athletics.
Mathematics. Math also, second.
So I was pretty much of an A minus. Right. Pretty
much across sometimes straight As, but not very
often. There's always a minus here and there. And
did you finish? I went to the Obersekunde when I had
diphtheria. And I was out of school for all year.
Which is why you couldn't become an officer going
directly from school. Yeah, right, going
directly from school. And I could not catch up with
the class after me because they had now French, and
they had changed the curriculum behind me without
asking me. Because if it had been the same
curriculum, all I had to do was do it over again.
Right. and catch up for that one year. And I only
missed it by, I remember my gym teacher said,
Dennis, if I'd known that... He didn't say Dennis,
but let's go with that. He took me aside, we were
doing broad jumps that day, and my physical
ability wasn't, I was below my distances and
everything, falling off from sickness a little
bit, but I was coming back. If I'd known it was that
close, we could have done something, you know, he
said, you know. So dropped out that last year.
Yeah. Not unlike your dropping out last year, so.
Yeah. Yeah, and then my father wanted that we tried
that class and simply could not. It wasn't only
that they had French as a major, they seemed to have
a hold of math and everything had changed. From
about, they had gotten a new direction and it's
just a different curriculum. And I always was so
jealous of of the American school system when I
heard that you had your units and what you had, you
kept. All you had to do is go somewhere else and make
up what you didn't have. That made so much more
sense. Yeah. I paid $2 for the fingertips. Let me
ask you, as close as it was, could your father not
have pulled some strings? I get the feeling your
father was a very important man in town. Yes. He's a
Eisenbahnmeister or that was. Yeah, but he was
gone so much on his train. He had odd hours,
sometimes overnight trips. So he wasn't really
that powerful. In fact, now that you've mentioned
it, it's a good point. You're very intuitive.
Because I was really a little upset with my father
for not doing something and checking up on it. that
I was in this no-win situation and was having
difficulties. And of course, maybe it may have
been my fault. I didn't communicate enough. I
don't know. But you certainly thought he was
powerful enough to be able to do something. Yeah,
yeah. He says, if we had had some conferences,
maybe with some of the teachers, we could have
ironed out something about this. And we did have a
talk, if I remember exactly. And then he said,
well, I'm sorry, or something to that effect. But I
said, no, no on that. And I said, well, what are we
going to do now? OK, then how about trying to, there
was a nearby town that, at that time, It was more
similar, he thought, but it had girls in it, co-ed
school in a town maybe 20, 30 miles away. And I tried
that, and they had a curriculum that I didn't fit
too well, did not make it. Then he said we'd go.